---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
keywords: []
description: >-
  Ghana contains great diversity of ethnic groups. The Akan are the most
  numerous, consisting of over 40 percent of the population. They are followed
  by the Ewe, Ga, Adangme, Guan, and Kyerepong in the south. The largest
  northern groups are the Gonja, Dagomba, and Mamprussi, but the region contains
  many small decentralized communities, such as the Talensi, Konkomba, and
  Lowiili. In addition, significant numbers of Mossi from Burkina Faso have
  immigrated as agricultural and municipal workers. Nigerian Hausa are widely
  present as traders. 
datePublished: '2016-06-05T05:32:44.357Z'
dateModified: '2016-06-05T05:32:32.705Z'
title: Places
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-06-05-ghana.md
authors: []
publisher: null
starred: false
url: ghana/index.html
_type: Article

---
Ghana contains great diversity of ethnic groups. The Akan are the most numerous, consisting of over 40 percent of the population. They are followed by the Ewe, Ga, Adangme, Guan, and Kyerepong in the south. The largest northern groups are the Gonja, Dagomba, and Mamprussi, but the region contains many small decentralized communities, such as the Talensi, Konkomba, and Lowiili. In addition, significant numbers of Mossi from Burkina Faso have immigrated as agricultural and municipal workers. Nigerian Hausa are widely present as traders. 

# Places

### The Art Of Deliverance - Mr. White

Mr. White is a teacher of Apotheosis (Godliness). he is the founder of the School Of Universal Light, where traditional spirituality blends with modern times, to create a progressive way of experiencing indigenous spirituality. In 2011, he was enstooled (made a chief) as the NKPALEWURA (Sumankwaahene) of the Akyode traditional area in Ghana. He is now officially known as NANA GEGYOGA GEWOMBA GEBESO, I.

Mr. White will take us a journey reconnect and reawaken our connection to our ancestors.

#### The Consultation

We live in a world that is dominated by three major religions that come from the same root. Christianity, Islam & Judaism. The Consultation will open up the individual into understanding and reframing their belief system.

#### The Deliverance

This is the first part of connection with your ancestral legacy & lineage.

#### The Divination

By using bones, cards, shells, water and many other items. The road to a person's mission and purpose will open up to them.

#### Doing Prescription/Letting go

Offerings of thanks and gratitude is done to complete the process.

### Jinn diviner of Possibilities Koforidia

Ancient stories speak about a race of people that were born of fire called the Jinn. Normally we are not able to see them but under certain situations we are able to communicate and experience them. The Jinn diviner comes from a lineage of Jinn diviners. We will meet the diviner and his father who has passed down the connection to the son. They will tell us the history of their relationship with the Jinn.

#### Interview with a Jinn

##### Consultation by the Jinn

#### Holding the magik of the jinn

### Bekai Family shrine of Protection & Solace

The Bekai come from a long lineage of warriors.Their land is surrounded by a great river on one side a small road that comes in to the town and the rest is circled by a mountain range. We will learn the story of how one gentle man who was never told about his lineage, discovers his powers and lineage as a warrior shaman. 

#### The river of thanksgiving

The river protects them from enemy intruders and they make offerings to mamywata for keeping them safe and fortified.

#### The mound of Protection and Solace

The have been given the task of protecting a sacred gift for humanity.They are also tasked with the duty of using this shrine to serve people who need protection and solace.

### House of the Ancestors - LatÉ

#### Acknowledgeing the Ancestors

One of the oldest shrines in Ghana, where traditions and practices have been the same for over 500 years.

#### Medicine of the Elders

Plant spirit medicine of southern Ghana. Experience and understand the mind, body & spirit relationship to NATURE.

### Spirit in the Night

Night club where the young dance to modern club sounds and djembe drums. That can cause some to become taken over by spirit.

## Ethnic Relations.

### EwéThe Ewé have over 600 deities to turn to in times of need. Many village celebrations and ceremonies take place in honor of one or more deities. The Ewe occupy southeastern Ghana and the southern parts of neighboring Togo and Benin.

## Fanti 

## Hausas 

The Hausas are people mainly located in northern Nigeria, south-eastern Niger, Sudan, Cameroon, Ghana, Cote d'Ivoire, and Chad.

The Hausa have been Muslim since the 14th century. The architecture of the Hausa is perhaps one of the least known but most beautiful of the medieval age. 

## Ashanti 

The Ashanti tribe of the Akan are the largest tribe in Ghana and one of the few matrilineal societies in West Africa. The village is a social as well as an economic unit. Everyone participates in the major ceremonies, the most frequent of which are funeral celebrations which typically last several days. Attendance at funerals is normally expected from everyone in the village and expenditure on funerals is a substantial part of the _household budget_. 

### Ga-Adangbe

The Ga-Adangbe people inhabit the Accra Plains. The Adangbe are found to the east, the Ga groups, to the west of the Accra coastlands. Although both languages are derived from a common proto-Ga-Adangbe ancestral language, modern Ga and Adangbe are mutually unintelligible. The modern Adangbe include the people of Shai, La, Ningo, Kpone, Osudoku, Krobo, Gbugble, and Ada, who speak different dialects. The Ga also include the Ga-Mashie groups occupying neighborhoods in the central part of Accra, and other Gaspeakers who migrated from Akwamu, Anecho in Togo, Akwapim, and surrounding areas.